# **Gremlin**
## 1. What will we learn from this problem?
This problem wants to make sure you know basic **SQL injection**.  
  
## 2. Analize codes
    <?php
        include "./config.php";
        login_chk();
        dbconnect();
        if(preg_match('/prob|_|\.|\(\)/i', $_GET[id]))  
            exit("No Hack ~_~");
            // do not try to attack another table, database!  

        if(preg_match('/prob|_|\.|\(\)/i', $_GET[pw]))  
            exit("No Hack ~_~");  

        $query = "select id from prob_gremlin where id='{$_GET[id]}' and pw='{$_GET[pw]}'";
        echo "<hr>query : <strong>{$query}</strong><hr><br>";
        $result = @mysql_fetch_array(mysql_query($query));
        if($result['id']) solve("gremlin");
        highlight_file(__FILE__);
    ?>
I have cleaned up this code nicely.


### 1. include "./config.php"
In this part, this code includes ./config.php like c

### 2. login_chk()
Maybe.. it will be to get session data from our user data.

### 3. dbconnect()
Connect at database

### 4. preg_match()  
This function is function to confirm that there is an element of the pattern. If this finds the pattern from str, it will stop to search.   
This is Korean introduction about preg_match() from PHP_Manual.
    
    preg_match()는 pattern이 매치된 횟수를 반환합니다. 이는 0(매치 없음)이나 1입니다. preg_match()는 처음 매치 후에 검색을 중지하기 때문입니다. 대조적으로, preg_match_all()는 subject의 끝까지 계속해서 실행합니다. 에러가 발생하면, preg_match()는 FALSE를 반환합니다. 

So, In this problem, you will be filtered like these,

    prob | _ | . | ()  

If you use this string or char at GET parameter id or pw, you will see message like "No hack ~_~"

### 5. $query
This program will temporarily save query string at this variable.  
    
    select id from prob_gremlin where id='{$_GET[id]}' and pw='{$_GET[pw]}'

{$_GET[id]} and {$_GET[pw]} will be replaced by id and pw, GET parameter  
If we give GET parameter "?id=admin&pw=admin" to server through url, query will look like this  

    select id from prob_gremlin where id='admin' and pw='admin'

Then, Can't we modulate query?

#### 5-1. GET Parameter
GET is HTTP Method. We use this when we want to get something.
For example, It is GET Method to enter in our browser.  

     http://www.example.exam/tmp/test.php?id=admin

There was example url.  
"http" means schema of this url and "www.example.exam" means host.
"/temp/test.php" means path of your request.  
Lastly, "?id=admin" is GET parameter which is behind of char, '?'

### 6. mysql_query(query)
mysql_query() returns data by using query

### 7. mysql_fetch_array()
Using data that mysql_query() returned, this function returns the value of array type.
and @ is to ignore error mark.

### 8. if($result['id']) solve('gremlin');
If we succeeded in getting an id through query, we can get data using 'field name' from result array. If we succeeded, we can solve this problem.  
  
## 3. Solution
I had mentioned for a moment, "can't we modulate this query?"  
Main point of SQL injection is to **modulate query**.  
  
This is the query.

    select id from prob_gremlin where id='{$_GET[id]}' and pw='{$_GET[pw]}'

This query means this code (It is not real code. It is simple example to understand)

    Table table = DB.getTable("prob_gremlin");

    Data result = '';

    for(row r : table.rows)
        if (r.id == $_GET[id] && r.pw == $_GET[pw])
            result += r.id;

    return result;

Then we can modulate this query using GET parameter 'id' and 'pw'  

### Using Keyword
    ' | 1 | or
  
### In my case : 
    id='or%201=1--%20 

    or

    pw='or'1'='1

**%20 is hex of space**  
**-- is annotation of mysql** (It has to space behind -- annotation)

**Lastly, There can be many answers**

**[Go to see other solutions](https://github.com/moreal/TIL/blob/master/Security/WarGame/WriteUp/los.eagle-jump.org/00.%20ReadMe.md)**