# **Orc**
## 1. What will we learn from this problem?
This problem wants to make sure you know basic **Blind SQL injection**  
( In fact, I don't know exactly what it is. )

## 2. Analize codes
    <?php 
      include "./config.php"; 
      login_chk(); 
      dbconnect(); 
      
      if(preg_match('/prob|_|\.|\(\)/i', $_GET[pw]))
        exit("No Hack ~_~"); 
      
      $query = "select id from prob_orc where id='admin' and pw='{$_GET[pw]}'"; 
      
      echo "<hr>query : <strong>{$query}</strong><hr><br>"; 
      
      $result = @mysql_fetch_array(mysql_query($query)); 
      
      if($result['id'])
        echo "<h2>Hello admin</h2>"; 

      $_GET[pw] = addslashes($_GET[pw]); 
      
      $query = "select pw from prob_orc where id='admin' and pw='{$_GET[pw]}'"; 
      
      $result = @mysql_fetch_array(mysql_query($query)); 
      
      if(($result['pw']) && ($result['pw'] == $_GET['pw']))
        solve("orc"); 
      
      highlight_file(__FILE__); 
    ?>

### 1. preg_match()
We can't use like these scope(only pw)

    prob | _ | . | ()

if we use those, we can see message like "No Hack ~_~"

### 2. query
Query is this.

    select pw from prob_orc where id='admin' and pw='{$_GET[pw]}'

Only pw parameter can modulate this query.

### 3. if(($result['pw']) && ($result['pw'] == $_GET['pw'])) solve("orc");
We have to success to get pw field. Also, to clear this problem, we have to know what pw is.

## 3. Solution
In this problem, we can use almost functions except table name.  
  
We must use Python or other programming language.  
( Of course you can do every case. But it will be very hard )
  
You can use many functions of SQL.

### 3-1. **SUBSTR**, **ASCCI**
[They are same thing with what I told.](https://github.com/moreal/TIL/blob/master/Security/WarGame/WriteUp/los.eagle-jump.org/03.%20Goblin.md)  

### 3-2. **if(Condition, trueValue, falseValue)**
As its name implies, this function helps to process according to the condition which user wants

If value of condition is true, return trueValue.  
If not, it will return falseValue.

Ex) - "pw=if(1=1,1,0)" = "pw=1" // "pw=if(1=0,1,0)" = "pw=0"

### 3-3. **{source} like {pattern}**
This function checks there is something using pattern.

    Wild Card
        
        (pw is '1234')

        We can know length of string using char '_'
        When we use query like "pw like '____'", it will return true.

        And

        When we use query like "pw like '1%'", this function check that string start with '1'.

        '1%' : start with '1' ?
        '%1' : end with '1' ?
        '%1%' : there is '1' ?

Using them, we can find out the 'pw'

I made a simple python program to find 'pw' [__SOURCE__]()

### My Answers :
    
    --- {} part will be replaced to other integer value ---

    ?pw=' or id=admin and pw like '{str}%25

    ?pw=' or id=admin and 1=if(ascii(substr(pw, {offset},1))={ascii_integer_value},1,0) -- -

If we can find string "Hello admin" from html page source,  
the character or string, which we tried is part of string which we wanted.  
  
**Lastly, There can be many answers**

**[Go to see other solutions](https://github.com/moreal/TIL/blob/master/Security/WarGame/WriteUp/los.eagle-jump.org/00.%20ReadMe.md)**
  